he steadfastly clung on resisting calls
to stand down but today set Blatter the
embattled FIFA president finally threw
in the towel said this is your pom i
will call an extraordinary congress and
put it disposed on my function it is
going to be held as soon as possible and
a new president will be elected to
follow me as the president I will
continue to exercise my function as
president of FIFA until the new
elections are going to be held that's
FIFA speak for I'm resigning but Blatter
will carry on as the boss until a
replacement is found possibly by the end
of this year it was less than a week ago
that FIFA officials were rounded up and
arrested in a dawn sweep on a Zurich
hotel mr. Blatter was not one of them
but the decision by the FBI to bring
corruption charges racketeering wire
fraud money laundering put him under
enormous pressure nevertheless the
following day when channel 4 news became
the first to ask him directly if he
would resign mr. Blatter appeared
defiant surely it's time for you two to
say goodbye to fee for the scandal in
the corruption still he managed to
emerge the victor at FIFA elections last
week being reappointed as president for
a fifth term let's go tifa let's go keep
up thank you then over the weekend a
newly confident Blatter insisted that
rumors the police might soon come after
him were unfounded arrested for what
next question nothing it seemed could
touch him but then today came fresh
embarrassing revelations that brought
the accusations of bribery and
corruption closer to the FIFA
president's door central to last week's
arrests was the payment of a bribe to a
senior fifa official the indictment by
the US Department of Justice claimed
that in early 2008 Jack Warner a former
FIFA vice president received bank
transfers totaling 10 million dollars
which he is alleged to have taken as a
bribe for having helped South Africa
secure the 2010 World
cup up until now we only knew that the
transfer of the money was authorized by
an undisclosed high-ranking fifa
official but last night the new york
times reported that official was Jerome
Valcke he is FIFA's general secretary
and his second-in-command to set Blatter
bringing the FIFA president's name ever
closer to the bribery inquiry FIFA
doesn't deny the transfer of the 10
million dollars but it insists the money
was used to set up a World Cup Legacy
Fund for Africans in the Caribbean but
it does in fata CLE deny its general
secretary jerome valcke had anything to
do with the money instead it pinned it
on the former head of its Finance
Committee a man who has since deceased
but FIFA's denial was quick to come
under attack after this letter from the
South African Football Association was
leaked on Twitter today it is addressed
to Jerome Valcke clearly requesting 10
million dollars to be set aside football
kunal's we don't know for sure if that
revelation tipped Blatter over the edge
but we do knows just hours later the
president of the fools controversial
world governing body stood on a podium
mm exceed board potential and resigned
you